[DOCS] Adds Working with transforms at scale to docs (#65726)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/transform/transforms-at-scale.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[transform-scale]]
= Working with {transforms} at scale
++++
<titleabbrev>{transforms-cap} at scale</titleabbrev>
++++

{transforms-cap} convert existing {es} indices into summarized indices, which 
provide opportunities for new insights and analytics. The search and index 
operations performed by {transforms} use standard Elasticsearch features so 
similar considerations for working with Elasticsearch at scale are often 
applicable to transforms. If you experience performance issues, start by 
identifying the bottleneck areas (search, indexing, processing, or storage) then 
review the relevant considerations in this guide to improve performance. It also 
helps to understand how {transforms} work as different considerations apply 
depending on whether or not your transform is running in continuous mode or in 
batch.

In this guide, you’ll learn how to:

* Understand the impact of configuration options on the performance of 
  {transforms}.

**Prerequisites:**

> These guildelines assume you’re already familiar with: 

Reviewer: > These guildelines assume you’re already familiar with: 

From subsequent paragraphs, it seems like the assumption is that you're not just familiar with these concepts, but you have a transform that you're now attempting to tune/debug.  Should that be the prerequisite instead?

> * <<transform-overview,How to create {transforms}>>.

Reviewer: > <<transform-overview,How to create {transforms}>>.

This link text seems misleading to me.  That page doesn't tell you how to create transforms as much as what transform are at a high level.  Maybe the link text should be "the purpose of transforms" or "basic concepts associated with transforms". Or maybe omit the link all together?

* <<transform-setup,How to set up {transforms}>>.
* <<transform-checkpoints,How {transform} checkpoints work in continuous mode>>.

The following considerations are not sequential – the numbers help to navigate 
between the list items; you can take action on one or more of them in any order. 
Most of the recommendations apply to both continuous and batch {transforms}. If 
a list item only applies to one {transform} type, this exception is highlighted 
in the description.

The keywords in parenthesis at the end of each recommendation title indicates 

> the factor that may be improved by following the given recommendation.

Reviewer: > the factor that may be improved by following the given recommendation.

I found myself wondering what a "factor" was.  Is it equivalent to the "bottleneck areas" mentioned earlier? If so, it might be helpful to clarify that here so readers don't get derailed wondering what it means.

[discrete]
[[measure-performance]]

> == Measure {transforms} performance

Reviewer: > == Measure {transforms} performance

Should this section have a number too?  This feels like a necessary first step in the troubleshooting process.

Author: This is a necessary first step while all the other steps are optional.
We say in the previous paragraph that "[t]he following considerations are not sequential – the numbers help to navigate 
between the list items; you can take action on one or more of them in any order." 
I wanted to emphasize that it is a required step by not adding a number to it, so this way it is not a part of the list that enumerate optional steps.

In order to optimize {transform} performance, start by identifying the areas 
where most work is being done. The **Stats** interface of the 
**{transforms-cap}** page in {kib} contains information that covers three main 
areas: indexing, searching, and processing time (alternatively, you can use the 
<<get-transform-stats, {transforms} stats API>>). If, for example, the results 
show that the highest proportion of  time is spent on search, then prioritize 
efforts on optimizing the search query of the {transform}. {transforms-cap} also 
has https://esrally.readthedocs.io[Rally support] that makes it possible to run 
performance checks on {transforms} configurations if it is required. If you 
optimized the crucial factors and you still experience performance issues, you 
may also want to consider improving your hardware.

[discrete]
[[frequency]]

> == 1. Optimize `frequency` (index)

Reviewer: > == 1. Optimize `frequency` (index)

Have you considered putting all the index-related actions together? I found myself wondering why the sections flip from index-related to search-related then back to index-related suggestions. If there's a reason they're sorted that way, it wasn't obvious to me.

Author: The list goes from the easy wins to the steps that are harder to execute. I added a sentence to explain it (line 34-35).

Reviewer 2: > The list goes from the easy wins to the steps that are harder to execute.  I added a sentence to explain it (line 34-35).

This isn't true enough to state .. for example limiting the scope of the query is at the bottom, but relatively easy to execute. We haven't ordered this particularly actively.

Author: Then I group the actions in my next commit into four groups: index, search, process, storage.

Author: Addressed via d7d67fa.

In a {ctransform}, the `frequency` configuration option sets the interval 

> between checks for changes in the source indices when the {transform} runs 

Reviewer: > In a continuous transform ... when the {transform} runs continuously.

I think one of these phrases is redundant.

Author: Editing error... thanks for spotting it!

continuously. If changes are detected, then the source data is searched and the 

> changes are applied to the destination index. Changing the frequency will change 

Reviewer: > Changing the frequency will change the profile of the transform workload.

IMO this sentence is unnecessary and is a little too vague to be helpful. The subsequent sentence is more concrete.

the profile of the {transform} workload. Depending on your use case, you may 
wish to reduce the frequency at which changes are applied. By setting 

> `frequency` to a higher value (maximum is one hour) workload can be spread over 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`frequency` to a higher value (maximum is one hour), the workload can be spread over 
```

> time for the cost of less up-to-date data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
time at the cost of less up-to-date data.
```

[discrete]
[[search-queries]]
== 2. Profile and optimize your search queries (search)

If you have defined a {transform} source index `query`, ensure it is as 
efficient as possible. Use the **Search Profiler** under **Dev Tools** in {kib} 
to get detailed timing information about the execution of individual components 
in the search request. Alternatively, you can use the <<search-profile>>. The 
results give you insight into how search requests are executed at a low level so 
that you can understand why certain requests are slow, and take steps to improve 
them.

{transforms-cap} execute standard {es} search requests. There are different ways 
to write {es} queries, and some of them are more efficient than others. Consult 
<<tune-for-search-speed>> to learn more about {es} performance tuning.

[discrete]
[[index-sorting-group-by-ordering]]

> == 3. Use Index Sorting and `group_by` ordering (search, process)

Reviewer: I don't think this needs to be capitalized:
```suggestion
== 3. Use index sorting and `group_by` ordering (search, process)
```

If you use more than one `group_by` field in your {transform}, then the order of 
the fields in conjunction with the use of <<index-modules-index-sorting>> may 

> improve runtime.

Reviewer: > in conjunction with the use of index sorting ...

While reading this, I wondered if it was possible to change the index sorting for an existing index. The linked docs say "
Index sorting can be defined only once at index creation. It is not allowed to add or update a sort on an existing index." Therefore perhaps we should clarify that this step can only be taken if you already have index sorting in place (or are able to reindex?)

Author: I've clarified it in the latest commit.

Index sorting enables you to store documents on disk in a specific order which 
can improve query efficiency. The ideal sorting logic depends on your use case, 
but the rule of thumb may be to sort the fields in descending order (high to low 
cardinality) starting with the time-based fields. Then put the time-based 
components first in the `group_by` if you have any, and then apply the same 
order to your `group_by` fields as configured for index sorting. 

[discrete]
[[increase-shards-dest-index]]
== 4. Increase the number of shards of the destination index (index)

> <<scalability,Depending on the size of the destination index>>, you may consider 

Reviewer: > <<scalability,Depending on the size of the destination index>>, you may consider 

I think this link should be referenced separately, since I'm not sure why I'd click it here. Maybe something like this:

> Depending on the size of the index, you may consider increasing its shard count... create the destination index before you start the transform. For more information about how the number of shards affects scalability and resilience, refer to <<scalability>>.

increasing its shard count. {transforms-cap} use one shard by default when 
creating the destination index. To override the index settings, create the 
destination index before starting the {transform}.

> Hint: Use the <<preview-transform>> to check the settings that the {transform} 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TIP: Use the <<preview-transform>> to check the settings that the {transform} 
```

would use to create the destination index. You can copy and adjust these in 
order to create the destination index prior to starting the {transform}.

[discrete]
[[optimize-shading-strategy]]
== 5. Optimize the sharding strategy for the source index (search)

There is no one-size-fits-all sharding strategy. A strategy that works in one 
environment may not scale in another. A good sharding strategy must account for 
your infrastructure, use case, and performance expectations.

Too few shards may mean that the benefits of distributing the workload cannot be 
realised; however too many shards may impact your cluster health. To learn more 
about sizing your shards, read this <<size-your-shards,guide>>.

[discrete]
[[disable-source-dest]]
== 6. Disable the `_source` field on the destination index (storage)

The <<mapping-source-field>> contains the original JSON document body that was 

> passed at index time. The `_source` field itself is not indexed (and thus is not 

Reviewer: > that was passed ...

This wording makes me wonder: "Passed to where?" or "Passed to what?". Is there a clearer way to state this?

searchable), but it is still stored in the index and incurs a storage overhead. 
Consider disabling `_source` to save storage space if you have a large 
destination index. Disabling `_source` is only possible during index creation.

NOTE: When the `_source` field is disabled, a number of features are not 
supported. Consult <<disable-source-field>> to understand the consequences 
before disabling it.

[discrete]
[[tune-max-page-search-size]]
== 7. Tune `max_page_search_size` (search)

> The `max_page_search_size` parameter defines the number of buckets that are 

Reviewer: I think it would be helpful to clarify where this is set, since we've been talking about all sorts of varied index and shard settings up til now. For example:
```suggestion
The `max_page_search_size` transform configuration option defines the number of buckets that are 
```

returned for each search request. The default value is 500. If you increase this 
value, you get better throughput at the cost of higher latency and memory usage.

The ideal value of this parameter is highly dependent on your use case. If your 
{transform} executes memory-intensive aggregations – for example, cardinality or 
percentiles – then increasing `max_page_search_size` requires more available 

> memory. A circuit breaker exception will occur if memory limits are exceeded.

Reviewer: Minor suggestion, but I always like putting the conditionals at the beginning of the sentence:
```suggestion
memory. If memory limits are exceeded, a circuit breaker exception occurs.
```

[discrete]
[[indexed-fields-in-source]]
== 8. Use indexed fields in your source indices (search)

Runtime fields and scripted fields are not indexed fields, and their values are 
only extracted or computed at search time. While these fields provide 
flexibility in how you access your data, they increase performance costs at 
search time. If {transform} performance using runtime fields or scripted fields 
is a concern, you may wish to consider using indexed fields instead. For 
performance reasons, we do not recommend using a runtime field as the time field 

> used for syncing a {ctransform}. 

Reviewer: Minor nit, but can we avoid putting "use" twice in this sentence? Maybe something like this:
```suggestion
that synchs a {ctransform}. 
```

[discrete]
[[limit-source-query]]
== 9. Limit the scope of the source query (search)

Imagine your {ctransform} is configured to group by `IP` and calculate the sum 
of `bytes_sent`. For each checkpoint, a {ctransform} detects changes in the 
source data since the previous checkpoint, identifying the IPs for which new 
data has been ingested. Then it performs a second search, filtered for this 
group of IPs, in order to calculate the total `bytes_sent`. If this second 
search matches many shards, then this could be resource intensive. Consider 
limiting the scope that the source index pattern and query will match.

Use an absolute time value as a date range filter in your source query (for 
example, greater than `2020-01-01T00:00:00`) to limit which historical indices 

> will be accessed. If you use a relative time value (for example, `now-30d`) then 

Reviewer: In general, we try to stick with present tense where possible:
```suggestion
are accessed. If you use a relative time value (for example, `now-30d`) then 
```

> this date range will be re-evaluated at the point of each checkpoint execution.

Reviewer: Ditto re verb tense:
```suggestion
this date range is re-evaluated at the point of each checkpoint execution.
```
